---
layout: default
title: UCOSP Wrap-up
---

So the semester is drawing to a close, and it's time to reflect on the results
of our work.

We completed the project we set out to make - a Maven plugin which records
version information and Git commit information, and an Eclipse plugin to
interact with those records.  It's pretty cool to see tangible results, and
hopefully our work will prove useful to people in the future.

The actual product is probably most useful to Eclipse users who are potential
Eclipse contributors: it makes it easy for them to get the source code for their
installed software, without needing to identify the repository or commit it
should be traced back to. With the number and size of Eclipse projects, that
task is nearly Herculean, so making it easier for someone to access that code
makes it much more likely that they will still have the stamina to actually look
at the code and try to understand it.

Obviously this project is not a complete solution to the problem of working with
Maven and p2 projects. What it doesn't do is make it easier for developers to
actually integrate p2 and Maven projects.

Currently, the accepted solution for building p2 projects with Maven is Tycho,
our favorite plugin.

There are a number of compromises one makes when building with Tycho which make
deep integration difficult. First, the Maven `artifactId` of a project has to
match the OSGI bundle identifier exactly, which means that the artifactId is
probably something like `org.eclipse.cbi.versionchecker` (the namespace of our
project). This is an issue since idiomatic Maven `artifactId`s are more like
`versionchecker-plugin`; they are usually hyphen-separated, without the
hierarchical group information. Second, Tycho ignores the dependencies specified
in the `pom.xml`, and uses the dependencies specified in the manifest instead.
This latter point is the chief problem in integrating Maven-built projects into
a p2 project.

Integration the other way is possible. the artifacts which Tycho produces can be
submitted to a Maven repository as normal, using a `distributionManagement`
element in the `pom.xml`, and running the `deploy` goal. Then, in the dependent
Maven-only build, you can specify the `groupId` and `artifactId` as you would
for any other Maven dependency.

Overall, the semester has been really valuable for me - I learned a lot about
some powerful build tools which I had never encountered before. It is always
great to be able to spelunk into some new area, and try to learn as much as you
can in great detail about a new topic.

If I had some advice for future UCOSP students, it would be this:
* Don't be too ambitious. You have a limited amount of time, and you want to
have somethng which is complete by the end of the semester.
* Set aside some scheduled time every week for working on this project. It's
all too easy to think you'll fit it in around the rest of your schoolwork, but
if you don't dedicate a specific time to it, you can very quickly start falling
behind.
* Talk to your project mentors. They are there to help you learn, and the
experience that they have is worth making use of.
* Have fun! It's a great program and a great set of people, so enjoy the
opportunity. I know I did.

