---
layout: default
title: UCOSP Kick-off
---

Last weekend was the start of the [UCOSP](http://ucosp.ca) project, which is a
collaboration between about 20 Canadian universities and the open source
community. It provides undergrads with the opportunity to contribute to ongoing
open source projects, with the assistance and leadership of a group of mentors.

I have the privilege of working on a small corner of the Eclipse ecosystem. The
application we are working on is part of the project which is unifying the
build methodology of Eclipse projects; it is called CBI (Common Build
Infrastructure).

Our project is really all about package management. In the Eclipse ecosystem,
there exists a package repository format called p2, which integrates with the
Eclipse IDE. It is where all the Eclipse platform plugins live, and is widely
used for that reason.

There also exists a build tool called Maven, which is gaining consensus among
Java developers. Part of the infrastructure provided by Maven is a package
management system, which handles dependency management and resolution during
the build process.

The repository formats of these two tools are incompatible, but there is a
significant incentive to be able to work with both. A number of tools already
exist which go some ways towards accomplishing this goal. For us, the critical
one will be Tycho, which is a Maven plugin which is capable of building p2
repositories, and managing dependencies which are stored in p2 repositories.
We will attempt to provide a tool which gives canonical mappings between
artifacts in the various repositories and the source code they came from - a
catalog of version numbers for projects, which users and contributors can use
to determine the meaning of the version of their plugin or jar.
